

### What does your company want to be?

Are you looking at just getting into a new market for your products? Or are you looking at developing a consumer brand that can potentially grow  / diversify into other categories over time? This is probably the most important question you'd need to answer before you begin the processes and strategies involved in building these two businesses that are very different from one another.

The advantage of straight up becoming a B2B company where you only work as vendors to either Walmart / Amazon / Amazon Fulfillment / Target or any other specialty retail is that you will get consistent large orders that provide immediate consistent revenue for your firm by which you will be able to allocate resources (such as capital and time) in a better planned manner with the ability to forecast in an efficient manner. This will be extremely beneficial for you in the short term (<5 years) as you are only focused on building a good quality product and increasing sales. You have absolutely no need to build the marketing  / product distribution chops thereby saving you considerable resources.

The disadvantage of going B2B  (as a vendor) is that you will never understand or have any idea about your customers or what they want. You will not own any part of the customer experience or how they interact with your product other than the information provided to you through these larger retailers in their internal sales / CRM systems. Also, you can pretty much accept the fact that you will have to constantly find ways to reduce your operational costs EVERY SINGLE YEAR because these retailers will constantly ask you for price reductions on an annual / semi-annual basis based on your product sales. You can, for the most part, expect at least a 10% price reduction every year that they will demand of you as a tough customer with the promise of larger revenues. This will sound enticing initially, but over time, you will reach the physical limits of optimizing your costs until you reach a point where it is not economically viable for you to produce the product at a rate your customers (customers here being Walmart, Target etc.) want. By this point, you can also expect these companies to have produced a lower cost white labeled version of your product line thereby having the easy ability to remove you entirely from their shelves (physical and digital) and also creating a massive competition for you at that time (because you will have no other choice but to become a consumer brand) thereby making it extremely difficult for you to compete in the consumer retail space.

In short, if you want to become a vendor for these large retailers, your only advantage is you can live today but die tomorrow (metaphorically of course). You are pushing away the bitter medicine of building an entire consumer brand and distribution network initially for immediate large revenues.

Now, if your idea is to build a consumer brand where you know every single customer who purchases from you and their needs and aspirations, it is a much harder, long term game that will, over time, with much more amount of effort, resources, time & luck help you become a long lasting company. This will involve building your own distribution channels or out right building your website and internal CRM system that can manage, understand and develop customer relationships. In this line of business DO NOT expect to  become a household name in 2 years. You must consistently be focused on the long term horizon and develop the brand accordingly. This will also mean you WILL NOT be generating revenues in the scale of that of a vendor to large discount retailers. You will need to build your own marketing, shipping channels and other parts of a typical consumer brand while also focusing on cost efficiencies. But your advantages in the long term is that you will own the customer experience, and you can leverage that brand that you've built to consistently diversify into new product categories over time.


### What would you need to execute a consumer brand?

The easiest way today is to build a website through Shopify. They've simplified setting up an online store to the level of almost Shop-as-a-Service where all you need is a credit card to get started. Shopify has built in CRM, shipping label printers, website design frameworks and a ton of apps that covers 80% of your needs for a new consumer brand. A very large number of retail brands that have an online presence today work completely on Shopify's platform, some examples being GymShark, Kylie's Cosmetics, Heinz etc. These are very large companies doing revenues in the upwards of hundreds of millions of dollars that mostly on Shopify for all of their online store experience.

Additionally, building an online store is a much cheaper and effective strategy than building out a physical retail store for your products. An online store will give you access to the entirety of the US while a physical store will limit you geographically. If you are to not use Shopify, you would have to build all the components that go into Shopify separately which can cost you much more initially. The advantage of building your own online store is that you can make it exactly the way you want. Personally I would choose Shopify just because it costs me only $30 / month to have all that functionality until I reach a point in revenues where I need single digit percentage optimizations in every aspect of the store, where it would be absolutely essential to build my own website.

### What strengths would you need to build an online consumer brand?

A good well designed online store - There are tons of shopify theme developers or companies that will build you a good looking store around $1,000.

Marketing  - Online commerce is all about marketing. SEO, Facebook & Google Ads, and any other form of online advertising is going to be your biggest cost center building this brand. Marketing plays one of the most important roles in e-commerce just because you need to capture your customer's attention in the entire US population that is browsing the Internet everyday. It's like saying that you actually need to find ways to showcase your pin in a haystack for the customer to notice. So the pin has to be really flashy and compelling. 

Fantastic customer service - This comes through different aspects such as pricing, ease of use of the website, shipping timelines, returns etc.

CUSTOMER TRUST - getting a random person on the internet to go to your website and paying money to you in the hopes that they will receive a good product. This is going to play a crucial part in building your brand. All of my previous points above are a corollary to building long term customer trust.
